# PRECAST CONCRETE

  - [ ] PC1. THE DIMENSIONS, LOCATIONS AND PROFILES OF THE PRECAST ELEMENTS, SHALL BE OBTAINED FROM THE RELEVANT ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS. 
  - [ ] PC2. THE MINIMUM ELEMENT THICKNESS SHALL BE 150mm STRUCTURAL, UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE. THE DIMENSIONS ARE THE FINAL STRUCTURAL SIZES. ADDITIONAL CONCRETE MUST BE PROVIDED TO ALLOW FOR LOSS OF STRUCTURAL THICKNESS DUE TO ARCHITECTURAL REBATES AND SURFACE TREATMENT. 
  - [ ] PC3. THE MINIMUM CONCRETE STRENGTH SHALL BE f'c = 40 MPa, NORMAL WEIGHT, WITH A MINIMUM CEMENT CONTENT OF 330 kg/m3, UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE. THE PRECAST CONTRACTOR SHALL SUBMIT THE PROPOSED MIX DESIGN FOR REVIEW BY THE ENGINEER. REFER TO THE CONCRETE NOTES. 
  - [ ] PC4. CALCIUM CHLORIDE AND OTHER ADMIXTURES WILL NOT BE PERMITTED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE ENGINEER AND THEN ONLY IF THEY ARE WITHIN THE RESTRICTIONS OF AS3600 CLAUSE 4.9. 
  - [ ] PC5. ACID ETCHING AND OTHER SURFACE TREATMENTS ARE TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE ENGINEER FOR WRITTEN APPROVAL WITH THE APPROPRIATE METHODS OF APPLICATION. THE MANUFACTURER SHALL OBTAIN THE SPECIFIED FINISH IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SPECIFICATIONS AND TO THE ARCHITECT'S APPROVAL. 
  - [ ] PC6. THE COVER TO THE REINFORCEMENT SHALL BE: 35mm TO THE EXTERNAL FACE. 25mm TO THE INTERNAL FACE. 50mm TO THE EDGES. THE MINIMUM COVER TO THE VERTICAL BARS SHALL BE 40mm. THE TOLERANCE SHALL BE -0, +5 mm. (SHALL COMPLY TO AS3610 AND SECTION 1.3) 
  - [ ] PC7. THE REINFORCEMENT IN THE PRECAST ELEMENTS SHALL BE AS DETAILED. FABRIC SHALL BE ONE SHEET WHERE POSSIBLE. IF LAPPING IS REQUIRED IT SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH AS 3600 CLAUSE 13.2.4. THE SPLICES SHALL NOT OCCUR WITHIN 2000mm OF THE MID SPAN OF THE PRECAST ELEMENT. WHERE TWO LAYERS OF MESH ARE USED, THE SPLICES SHALL BE STAGGERED BY 1000mm UNLESS OTHERWISE APPROVED BY THE ENGINEER. STEEL REINFORCING MATERIALS FOR CONCRETE SHALL COMPLY WITH AS/NZS 4671. WHERE APPLICABLE, MATERIALS SHALL BE CUT AND BENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH AS 3600, AS 5100 OR AS 2870. ACCEPTABLE MANUFACTURERS AND PROCESSORS OF STEEL REINFORCING AND PRESTRESSING MATERIALS MUST ALSO HOLD A VALID CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL, ISSUED BY THE AUSTRALIAN CERTIFICATION AUTHORITY FOR REINFORCING STEELS LTD (ACRS). MATERIALS CERTIFIED TO AN ALTERNATIVE SYSTEM SHALL NOT BE USED WITHOUT DEMONSTRATED EQUIVALENCE AND SUBSEQUENT WRITTEN APPROVAL FROM THE SPECIFIER. EVIDENCE OF COMPLIANCE WITH THIS CLAUSE MUST BE OBTAINED WHEN CONTRACT BIDS ARE RECEIVED. 
  - [ ] PC8. ALL CAST-IN PLATES, CONNECTION MEMBERS, AND FIXINGS ARE TO BE HOT DIPPED GALVANISED TO AS 1650, OR STAINLESS STEEL, REFER TO DETAILS. PROJECTING REINFORCEMENT FROM PRECAST ELEMENTS FORMING JOINTS IN EXPOSED FINAL CONDITIONS, SHALL BE GALVANISED. 
  - [ ] PC9. THE PRECAST CONTRACTOR SHALL SUPPLY AND FIT GALVANISED LIFTING AND ERECTION FERRULES AS REQUIRED TO SUIT THE CALCULATED REQUIREMENTS. THESE FERRULES SHALL NOT BE LOCATED ON EXTERNAL EXPOSED FACES AND AFTER USE SHALL BE PROTECTED TO AVOID CORROSION AND STAINING. ARCHITECTURAL FIXING FERRULES SHALL BE LOCATED TO SUIT THE ARCHITECTURAL DETAILS. 
  - [ ] PC10. THE FORMWORK SHALL BE CLEAN AND RIGID ENOUGH TO RESIST THE EFFECTS OF VIBRATION AND MEET THE SURFACE FINISH CLASS REQUIRED. THE FINISH AND COLOUR CONTROL SHALL MEET THE ARCHITECT'S SPECIFICATIONS. 
  - [ ] PC11. CONSTRUCTION JOINTS IN PRECAST ELEMENTS ARE NOT PERMITTED. ALL CORBELS TO THE PRECAST ELEMENTS ARE TO BE POURED MONOLITHICALLY WITH THE PANEL. ALL FACES IN CONTACT WITH CAST-INSITU CONCRETE SHALL HAVE ROUGHENED SURFACES TO A DEPTH OF 5mm. 
  - [ ] PC12. THE PRECAST ELEMENTS HAVE BEEN DESIGNED FOR THE IN-SERVICE CONDITIONS (i.e. THE LOADS THE ELEMENTS ARE SUBJECTED TO AFTER ERECTION ON SITE). THE CONTRACTOR MUST ASSESS WHETHER ANY ADDITIONAL REINFORCEMENT IS REQUIRED TO SUIT THE PROPOSED METHOD OF HANDLING, TRANSPORTATION AND ERECTION. ANY ADDITIONAL MATERIAL COSTS WILL BE BORNE BY THE PRECAST CONTRACTOR. 
  - [ ] PC13. IT IS THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE PRECAST CONTRACTOR TO DESIGN ALL ELEMENTS FOR THE STRIPPING, LIFTING, STORAGE, TRANSPORTATION AND ERECTION STAGES. THE CONCRETE STRESSES DURING THESE STAGES SHALL NOT CAUSE CRACKING. STACKING SHALL NOT CAUSE WARPING GREATER THAN THE CODE LIMITS. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL SUBMIT DETAILS AND COMPUTATIONS PERFORMED BY A QUALIFIED (NPER-3) ENGINEER EXPERIENCED IN PRECAST CONCRETE TO THE ENGINEER FOR REVIEW. THE LOCATION AND SIZES OF THE INSERTS WITH TESTS PROVING THE INSERT'S CAPACITY SHALL BE INCLUDED. 
  - [ ] PC14. THE PRECAST CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE FULLY DETAILED SHOP DRAWINGS OF ALL PRECAST ELEMENTS SHOWING INSERTS, FIXINGS, ANCHORS, BOLTS, FERRULES AND LIFTING DEVICES ETC. THE PRECAST CONTRACTOR AND BUILDER SHALL COORDINATE ADDITIONAL FERRULE LOCATIONS FOR TEMPORARY BRACING OF THE PRECAST ELEMENTS DURING CONSTRUCTION AND ANY OTHER FIXINGS, INSERTS AND OPENINGS REQUIRED BY OTHER TRADES. 
  - [ ] PC15. THE CONCRETE STRENGTH AT STRIPPING FROM THE MOULDS SHALL BE DETERMINED BY THE CONTRACTOR BUT SHALL NOT BE LESS THAN f'c = 25 MPa. THE PROPOSED CURING METHODS SHALL BE SUBMITTED FOR APPROVAL. THE CURING MUST BE EQUIVALENT TO KEEPING WET FOR SEVEN DAYS. 
  - [ ] PC16. SHEAR STUD CONNECTORS SHALL CONFORM WITH AS 2327. WELDING OF THE STUDS SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH AS1554. THE SHEAR STUDS ARE TO BE DRAWN FROM COLD DRAWN STOCK TO AS 1443 GRADES 1010 TO 1020 WITH A MINIMUM TENSILE STRENGTH AFTER MANUFACTURE OF 410 MPa. 
  - [ ] PC17. PACKERS SHALL BE NON FERROUS AND SHALL BE PROVIDED WITH 50mm MINIMUM COVER EXTERNALLY OR WHERE IN VIEW. 
  - [ ] PC18. ALL GAPS BETWEEN PRECAST ELEMENTS SHALL BE PROPERLY SEALED PRIOR TO GROUTING THE JOINTS, TO STOP THE GROUT FILLING THE REQUIRED GAPS BETWEEN THE PRECAST AND THE STRUCTURE AND TO AVOID SPOILING THE FACE OF THE PRECAST. 
  - [ ] PC19. GROUTING OF DOWELS AND JOINTS SHALL BE DONE WITH A WATERPROOF PRE-PACKED CEMENT-BASED PRODUCT, WHICH SHALL BE MIXED WITH WATER ON SITE TO THE RECOMMENDED CONSISTENCY. THE COMPRESSIVE STRENGTH OF GROUT MUST EXCEED 40MPa AT 7 DAYS AND 60MPa AT 28 DAYS, BUT NOT LESS THAN THE CONCRETE STRENGTH OF THE PANEL PLUS 10 MPa. THE PRODUCT SHALL BE STORED, HANDLED AND PLACED STRICTLY IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE MANUFACTURERS INSTRUCTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS. WHERE THE PRECAST ELEMENTS CARRY MORE THAN SEVEN STORIES, MAKE A PROTOTYPE OF THE JOINT USING THE PROPOSED METHOD OF CONSTRUCTION, POUR THE JOINT AND SPLIT THE JOINT AFTER THREE DAYS SO THAT THE GROUTED JOINT CAN BE INVESTIGATED. THE DOWEL BAR NEED NOT BE USED. 
  - [ ] PC20. WHERE SITE WELDING OF METAL FIXINGS IS REQUIRED IN EXPOSED AREAS, DEGREASE THE WELDED AREAS, CHIP OR GRIND OFF THE WELD SPATTER, GRIND THE WELD AREA DOWN AND COAT WITH AN APPROVED ZINC RICH PAINT TO THE MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS. 
  - [ ] PC21. PROVIDE FIRE RATING TO ALL PRECAST CONNECTIONS TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BUILDING SURVEYOR AND ARCHITECT. 
  - [ ] PC22. FOR DETAILS OF FIRE BARRIERS AND WEATHERPROOFING OF JOINTS, REFER ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS. PC23. CLIP ON PRECAST ELEMENTS SHALL NOT BE ERECTED UNTIL ALL PROPS ARE REMOVED FROM THE SUPPORTING FLOOR STRUCTURE. 
  - [ ] PC24. NO HOLES SHALL BE CORED AND NO INSERTS SHALL BE "SHOT" OR DRILLED INTO THE PRECAST ELEMENTS WITHOUT THE ENGINEER'S APPROVAL. 
  - [ ] PC25. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL SUBMIT WRITTEN EVIDENCE OF DETAILED INSPECTION OF GROUTED JOINTS TO ALL LOAD-BEARING PRECAST CONCRETE ELEMENTS. 
  - [ ] PC26. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE TEMPORARY SUPPORTS DURING THE ERECTION OF THE PANELS AS REQUIRED TO ENSURE STABILITY OF THE PANELS UNTIL THE DESIGNED PERMANENT SUPPORTS HAVE BEEN INSTALLED

# SLAB ON GROUND
  - [ ] SOG1. ALL CONCRETE WORK TO COMPLY WITH AS 3600, AS2870 AND NCC  VOLUME 2 PARTS 3.1 AND 3.2 
  - [ ] SOG2. CONCRETE GRADE (REFER PLANS) 
  - [ ] SOG3. ALL VEGETATION SHALL BE STRIPPED TO A MINIMUM DEPTH OF 150mm. ANY SOFT SPOTS OR DELETERIOUS MATERIAL SHALL BE REMOVED AND REPLACED WITH APPROVED GRANULAR FILLING COMPACTED TO 100% AS. STANDARD COMPACTION. MINOR FILLING (800 MAXIMUM) SHALL BE PROVIDED WHERE REQUIRED TO BRING SUBGRADE TO REQUIRED LEVEL IN ACCORDANCE WITH LIMITS STATED IN AS 2870 AND NCC. FILLING SHALL BE APPROVED GRANULAR MATERIAL PLACED IN 150mm AND COMPACTED TO 100% AS. STANDARD COMPACTION. 
  - [ ] SOG4. A 0.2mm VAPOUR BARRIER SHALL BE USED, LAPPED A MINIMUM OF 200mm AT JOINTS AND TAPED AROUND SERVICES FITTINGS WITH ADHESIVE TAPE NOT INFERIOR TO DOUBLE SIDED BUTYL ADHESIVE TAPE. THE VAPOUR BARRIER SHALL BE PLACED ON A 50mm MINIMUM SAND BED OR SIMILAR APPROVED MATERIAL. PROTECT MEMBRANE FROM DAMAGE. COMPACT SAND SUFFICIENTLY TO SUPPORT REINFORCEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION TRAFFIC. 
  - [ ] SOG5. TRENCH MESH IN BEAMS SHALL BE OVERLAPPED BY THE WIDTH OF FABRIC AT 'T' AND 'L' INTERSECTIONS AND SPLICED WITH A LAP OF 500mm. RANDOM LAP N12 BARS BY 500mm STAGGERED. THE OUTER BAR AT 'L' INTERSECTION MUST BE BENT AND CONTINUED FOR 500mm AROUND THE CORNER. 
  - [ ] SOG6. SLAB FABRIC TO BE LAPPED SUCH THAT THE TWO OUTERMOST TRANSVERSE WIRE OF ONE SHEET OF MESH OVERLAP THE TWO OUTERMOST TRANSVERSE WIRES OF THE SHEET BEING LAPPED BY A MINIMUM OF 25mm AND BE SUPPORTED ON BAR CHAIRS AT 800mm MAXIMUM CENTERS. BAR CHAIR BASES ARE TO BE PROVIDED BENEATH ALL REINFORCING BAR CHAIRS TO ENSURE NO SETTLEMENT TO REINFORCEMENT OR DAMAGE TO VAPOUR BARRIER. 
  - [ ] SOG7. THIS DRAWING IS TO BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATION REPORT TO DETERMINE FOUNDING DEPTHS. 
  - [ ] SOG8. SITE CLASSIFICATIONS ARE IN ACCORDANCE WITH  AS 2870. CLASS P SITES ARE DESIGNED ON ENGINEERING PRINCIPLES AND IN ACCORDANCE TO SECTION 4 OF AS 2870 
  - [ ] SOG9. LOAD BEARING EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL BEAMS AND LOAD SUPPORT THICKENINGS ARE TO BE FOUNDED ON NATURAL SOIL WITH AN ALLOWABLE BEARING PRESSURE OF NOT LESS THAN 100 kPa. 
  - [ ] SOG10. SLAB PANELS ARE TO BE FOUNDED ON NATURAL SOIL WITH AN ALLOWABLE BEARING PRESSURE OF NOT LESS THAN 50 kPa. 
  - [ ] SOG11. TOP OF SLAB SHALL BE 150mm MINIMUM ABOVE THE FINAL GROUND LEVEL AND AS SPECIFIED BY THE ARCHITECT. 
  - [ ] SOG12. DRAINAGE AND GRADING AWAY FROM SLAB SHALL BE PROVIDED TO PREVENT WATER COLLECTING ADJACENT TO SLAB. TREATMENT OF AREAS SURROUNDING SLAB SHALL ALSO BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH RECOMMENDATIONS BY THE HOUSING GUARANTEE FUND AND THE OWNER/OCCUPIER SHALL BE PROVIDED WITH A COPY OF CSIRO INFORMATION SHEET No. 10-19. 
  - [ ] SOG13. WHERE REQUIRED BY COUNCIL PROTECT THE STRUCTURE FROM SUBTERRANEAN TERMITES IN ACCORDANCE WITH AS 3660 AND NCC. 
  - [ ] SOG14. SERVICES ON HIGHLY AND EXTREMELY REACTIVE SITES SHALL HAVE FLEXIBLE JOINTS AS SPECIFIED IN AS 2870 CLAUSE 6.6 AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS NOMINATED IN THE GEOTECHNICAL REPORT. 
  - [ ] SOG15. ROLLED FILL AND CONTROLLED FILLED SHALL BE COMPACTED AS SPECIFIED IN THE NCC AND AS 2870.

# STEEL 
 - [ ] S1. CONSTRUCTION CATEGORY IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF AS/NZS 5131 THE CONSTRUCTION CATEGORIES FOR THIS PROJECT ARE DEFINED BY ARCHITECTURAL PLANS: (SHALL COMPLY TO AS4100, AS/NZS 4600 AND AS/NZS 3828) 
 - [ ] S2. TREATMENT GRADES UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE IN THE PROJECT DRAWINGS, FOR THE ELEMENTS ON THIS PROJECT, THE TREATMENT GRADES ACCORDING TO AS/NZS 5131 SHALL BE: S3. COATING QUALITY LEVEL THE COATING QUALITY LEVEL ASSESSED ACCORDING TO AS/NZS 5131 SHALL BE AS GIVEN ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS
 - [ ] S4. SHOP DRAWINGS THE FABRICATOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR SUBMITTING SHOP DRAWINGS, WHICH SHALL COMPLY WITH THE CONTRACT DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS, FOR REVIEW BEFORE FABRICATION IS STARTED. REVIEW DOES NOT INCLUDE CHECKING OF DIMENSIONS, NOR TAKE RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONTRACTOR’S OBLIGATIONS. NO STEELWORK SHALL BE FABRICATED UNTIL FINAL APPROVAL OF THE SHOP DRAWINGS HAS BEEN RECEIVED AND ALL REVIEW COMMENTS ON THE WORKSHOP DRAWINGS HAVE BEEN RESOLVED. ALLOW THREE WORKING DAYS MINIMUM FOR REVIEW. 
 - [ ] S5. WORKMANSHIP AND QUALITY ALL STRUCTURAL STEELWORK SHALL BE FABRICATED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AS/NZS 5131. ALL WORK ON THIS PROJECT SHALL BE UNDERTAKEN BY COMPETENT PERSONNEL. REQUIREMENTS AND EXAMPLES OF QUALIFICATIONS FOR COMPETENT PERSONNEL ARE CONTAINED IN AS/NZS 5131. STEELWORK SHALL BE FABRICATED BY FABRICATORS CERTIFIED UNDER THE ASI ‘NATIONAL STRUCTURAL STEELWORK COMPLIANCE SCHEME’ (NSSCS). 
 - [ ] S6. TOLERANCES FABRICATION TOLERANCES SHALL CONFORM TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF AS/NZS 5131. THE TOLERANCE CLASS FOR FUNCTIONAL TOLERANCES SHALL BE CLASS 1 UNO. 
 - [ ] S7. GRADES ALL STRUCTURAL STEEL MATERIAL SHALL CONFORM TO THE FOLLOWING: HOT ROLLED STEEL SECTIONS AS/NZS 3679.1 MIN GRADE TS 102 300 / PLATE COMPONETS AS 3679 PART 1; TS 102 MIN GRADE 250 / FLATS AS 1594; TS 102 MIN GRADE 300 / HOLLOW SECTIONS INCLUDING CIRCULAR, SQUARE, RECTANGULAR AS 1163; TS 102 MIN GRADE C350l0 / WELDED BEAMS AND COLUMNS AS 3679 PART 2; TS 102 MIN GRADE 300 / SHEAR STUDS COMPOSITE SLAB TO STEEL AS 1154 PART 2 MIN GRADE 380 / QUENCH AND TEMPERED PLATE AS 3597 MIN GRADE 690 / PURLINS AND GIRTS AS 1397 MIN GRADE 450.  DEPENDING ON DIAMETER AND WALL THICKNESS MEMBER SIZES SHALL BE AS SHOWN ON THE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS. NO SUBSTITUTION IS PERMITTED WITHOUT APPROVAL IN WRITING FROM THE ENGINEER. DOCUMENTATION SUPPLIED WITH MATERIALS AND COMPONENTS SHALL CONFORM TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF AS/NZS 5131. 
 - [ ] S8. LAMELLAR TEARING: JOINT DETAILS WHICH ARE SUSCEPTIBLE TO LAMELLAR TEARING (LT) ARE INDICATED ON THE PROJECT DRAWINGS AS ‘LT SUSCEPTIBLE’, WITH THE SPECIFIC PLATE WITH HIGH THROUGH-THICKNESS STRESS NOTED. THE SPECIFIC PLATE IN JOINTS THAT ARE INDICATED AS ‘LT SUSCEPTIBLE’ SHALL BE SUPPLIED ULTRASONICALLY TESTED TO AS 1710 CLASS 1. 
 - [ ] S9. Z-PLATE REQUIREMENT: JOINTS THAT ARE DESIGNATED ‘LT SUSCEPTIBLE’ INCLUDING CRUCIFORM JOINTS AND T-BUTT JOINTS AT OR NEAR PLATE CUT EDGES (SEE CLAUSE 2.3.2) AND FURTHER REQUIRE PLATE TO A NOMINATED Z-VALUE ARE INDICATED ON THE PROJECT DRAWINGS WITH A DESIGNATED Z-VALUE. THE PLATE USED FOR THESE JOINTS SHALL BE ORDERED TO THE DESIGNATED Z-VALUE. REFER TO AS/NZS 1554.1:2014 APPENDIX H FOR THE CHOICE OF Z-QUALITIES TO AVOID LAMELLAR TEARING IN WELDED CONNECTIONS SUBJECTED TO TENSION STRESSES IN THE THROUGH-THICKNESS DIRECTION. 
 - [ ] S10. SUPPLEMENTARY ULTRASONIC TESTING: SUPPLEMENTARY ULTRASONIC TESTING TO AS 2207 AND AS/NZS 1554.1 IS REQUIRED FOR ALL PLATES 40mm THICKNESS AND OVER. 
 - [ ] S11. STEEL QUALITY: ALL STRUCTURAL STEEL SHALL BE SOURCED FROM MILLS WITH A RELEVANT JAS ANZ ACCREDITED THIRD-PARTY CERTIFICATION SCHEME SUCH AS THE ACRS SCHEME. ALTERNATIVE SOURCING OF THIRD-PARTY CERTIFIED STRUCTURAL STEEL SHALL BE SUBMITTED FOR REVIEW AND MUST BE APPROVED PRIOR TO THE COMMENCEMENT OF PROCUREMENT. 
 - [ ] S12. SPLICING OF STRUCTURAL MEMBERS ALL STRUCTURAL STEELWORK MEMBERS SHALL BE SUPPLIED IN A SINGLE LENGTH, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED WITH SPLICE LOCATIONS SHOWN ON THE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS. SPLICES AT OTHER LOCATIONS SHALL BE APPROVED BY THE ENGINEER PRIOR TO FABRICATION COMMENCING. 
 - [ ] S13. CAMBER GUIDELINES STEEL BEAMS, TRUSSES AND PORTALS SHALL BE CAMBERED 2.0mm UPWARDS FOR EVERY 1000mm SPAN UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE ON THE DRAWINGS. ALL RAFTERS AND BEAMS OVER 6000mm IN LENGTH SHALL BE CAMBERED 5mm UPWARDS FOR EVERY 2000mm OF LENGTH UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE ON THE DRAWINGS. POSITIVE PRE-SET TO CANTILEVER BEAMS SHALL BE 5.0mm FOR EVERY 1000mm OF LENGTH UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE ON THE DRAWINGS. 
 - [ ] S14. GALVANISING BATH RESTRICTIONS: WHERE INTENDED TO BE GALVANISED, ENSURE STRUCTURAL STEELWORK IS DETAILED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AVAILABLE GALVANISING BATH DIMENSIONS. 
 - [ ] S15. CUTTING, HOLING AND SHAPING: ALL CUTTING, HOLING AND SHAPING OF STRUCTURAL STEEL SHALL CONFORM TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF AS/NZS 5131. PENETRATIONS OR CUT-OUTS OTHER THAN THOSE SHOWN ON THE DRAWINGS SHALL NOT BE MADE WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL. WHERE STEEL ELEMENTS SHOWN ON THE STRUCTURAL OR ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS ARE REQUIRED TO BE CURVED, BENT OR ROLLED, THE FABRICATION CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE METHODS TO ACHIEVE THE REQUIRED SHAPES WITHOUT LOCALISED DISTORTION OR COMPROMISING THE STRENGTH OF THE MEMBERS. 
 - [ ] S16. BOLT DESIGNATION 4.6/S = COMMERCIAL GRADE 4.6 BOLTS TO AS 1111, TIGHTENED TO A SNUG TIGHT CONDITION TO AS/NZS 5131. 8.8/S = HIGH STRENGTH STRUCTURAL BOLTS OF GRADE 8.8 TO AS/NZS 1252.1, TIGHTENED TO A SNUG TIGHT CONDITION TO AS/NZS 5131. 8.8/TB = HIGH STRENGTH STRUCTURAL BOLTS OF GRADE 8.8 TO AS/NZS 1252.1, FULLY TENSIONED TO AS/NZS 5131 AS A BEARING JOINT. 8.8/TF = HIGH STRENGTH STRUCTURAL BOLTS OF GRADE 8.8 TO AS/NZS 1252.1, FULLY TENSIONED TO AS/NZS 5131 AS A FRICTION JOINT. 
 - [ ] S17. BOLT QUALITY: HIGH STRENGTH STRUCTURAL BOLTS SHALL BE VERIFIED TO AS/NZS 1252.2. THE DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED BY THE STANDARD, INCLUDING THE ‘SUPPLIER DECLARATION OF CONFORMITY’ (SDOC) SHALL BE PROVIDED. ALL TURNBUCKLES AND “D” NUTS MUST BE NATA CERTIFIED TO AT LEAST THE BREAKING CAPACITY OF THE MEMBER CONNECTED TO THEM. 
 - [ ] S18. CONTACT SURFACES IN TENSIONED CONNECTIONS: FOR CONNECTIONS WHERE 8.8/TF BOLTS ARE SPECIFIED, A FRICTION COEFFICIENT OF 0.35 HAS BEEN ASSUMED FOR THE DESIGN. THE CONTACT SURFACES SHALL BE PREPARED ACCORDING TO AS/NZS 5131 AND BE FREE FROM PAINT, LACQUER OR OTHER APPLIED FINISHES UNLESS THE APPLIED FINISH HAS BEEN TESTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AS/NZS 5131 APPENDIX G AND A FRICTION COEFFICIENT OF 0.35 OR HIGHER IS DETERMINED. 
 - [ ] S19. BOLT FINISH: ALL BOLTS, HOLDING DOWN BOLTS, AND CAST-IN FERRULES SHALL BE HOT-DIP GALVANISED TO AS/NZS 1214. 
 - [ ] S20. CAPTIVE NUTS: CAPTIVE NUTS TO BE WELDED TO THE STEELWORK SHALL BE GRADE 4.6S, CLASS 5 NUTS. THE ELECTRODES SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE CHEMISTRY OF THE STEEL INVOLVED (MEMBER OR CONNECTION COMPONENT AND NUT). ALL SUCH WELDS SHALL HAVE 100% VISUAL INSPECTION. GRADE 4.6S BOLTS TO BE USED. 
 - [ ] S21. WELDING CONSUMABLES: SHALL CONFORM TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF AS/NZS 1554, BASED ON THE YIELD STRENGTH OF THE STEEL TO BE WELDED, AS DEFINED as 1554 PART 1 AND 4, AS4100, AS/NZS 4600 AND AS/NZS 3828
 - [ ] NOMINAL YIELD STRENGTH OF STEEL TO BE WELDED TO CONFORM WITH AUSTRALIAN STANDARD ≤ 500 MPa, > 500 MPa, ≤ 690 MPa AS PER AS/NZS 1554.1 AS/NZS 1554.4 
 - [ ] NOMINAL YIELD STRENGTH OF STEEL TO BE WELDED NOMINAL TENSILE STRENGTH OF WELD METAL AS PER AS 1554
 - [ ] S22. NON-DESTRUCTIVE EXAMINATION: THE EXTENT OF NON-DESTRUCTIVE EXAMINATION (NDE) SHALL BE AS DEFINED IN TABLE 13.6.2.2(A) OF AS/NZS 5131. FOR STRUCTURES DESIGNED TO AS 4100 EARTHQUAKE DESIGN CATEGORY III THE TYPE AND EXTENT OF NDE SHALL BE THE GREATER OF THAT DEFINED IN TABLE  13.6.2.2(A) AND TABLE 13.6.2.2(B). ALL DEFECTS SHALL BE REPAIRED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RELEVANT PARTS OF AS/NZS 1554. 
 - [ ] S23. SITE WELD APPROVAL: OTHER THAN SITE WELDS (IF ANY) SHOWN ON THE SHOP DRAWINGS, DO NOT WELD ON SITE WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL. WHERE POSSIBLE, LOCATE SITE WELDS IN POSITIONS FOR DOWN HAND WELDING. 
 - [ ] S24. MINIMUM CONNECTION DETAILING GUIDELINES: UNLESS SPECIFICALLY NOTED OTHERWISE ON THE DRAWINGS, CONNECTION DETAILS SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS: 
 - [ ] a. ALL WELDS SHALL BE 6mm CONTINUOUS FILLET WELD (CFW) ALL ROUND WITH A NOMINAL TENSILE STRENGTH OF WELD METAL fuw = 490 MPa. 
 - [ ] b. ALL STEEL TO STEEL BOLTED CONNECTIONS SHALL BE MINIMUM TWO M20 GRADE 8.8/S IN 22mm DIAMETER HOLES. 
 - [ ] c. A MINIMUM OF TWO THREADS SHALL EXTEND PAST THE NUT. 
 - [ ] d. A MINIMUM OF ONE WASHER TO BE USED UNDER THE NUT. IF TIGHTENING IS CARRIED OUT AT THE HEAD AN ADDITIONAL WASHER SHALL BE USED UNDER THE HEAD. 
 - [ ] e. FOR SLOTTED HOLES SHORTER THAN THE LESSER OF 1.33 TIMES THE BOLT DIAMETER AND (BOLT DIAMETER + 10 mm) AND NOT WIDER THAN THE BOLT DIAMETER PLUS 2mm, USE HARDENED WASHERS UNDER THE BOLT HEAD AND NUT. 
 - [ ] f. ALL PLATES SHALL BE 10mm MINIMUM THICK. 
 - [ ] g. ALL PURLIN CLEATS SHALL BE 8mm MINIMUM THICK. 
 - [ ] h. CONNECTIONS SHALL PROVIDE FOR A MINIMUM FORCE OF 40KN. 
 - [ ] i. THREADED SLEEVES SHALL BE WELDED TO BOTH WALLS OF THE MEMBER WHERE USED FOR SHS AND RHS CONNECTIONS. 
 - [ ] j. ALL DETAILING AND GAUGE LINES WHERE NOT SPECIFICALLY SHOWN SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE AUSTRALIAN STEEL INSTITUTE (ASI) CURRENT EDITIONS OF THE ‘DESIGN CAPACITY TABLES FOR STRUCTURAL STEEL’ AND THE ASI STANDARDISED STRUCTURAL CONNECTION DETAILS CONTAINED THEREIN. THE FABRICATOR SHALL PROVIDE FIXINGS FOR ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS ETC WITHOUT WEAKENING THE STRUCTURAL ELEMENT IN ANY WAY. 
 - [ ] k. THE ENDS OF HOLLOW SECTION MEMBERS SHALL BE SEALED WITH NOMINAL THICKNESS PLATES AND CONTINUOUS SEAL WELDED UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE. IF HOLLOW SECTIONS ARE TO BE HOT-DIP GALVANISED, VENT AND DRAINAGE HOLES SHALL BE PROVIDED CONFORMING TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF AS/NZS 5131 IN NON-VIEWABLE LOCATIONS. 
 - [ ] l. ALL SHEAR CONNECTORS FOR COMPOSITE ELEMENTS SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH AS/NZS 1554
